this brings us to an incredibly
important term that I hope you'll
remember from this class that is
interphase inheritance so we'll come to
understand it over the rest of this
lecture but basically for now anytime
you use the implements key word we're
doing what's called interface
inheritance so what I mean by that is
all subclasses are said to inherit this
interface from their superclass right so
if any just any hyponym
it inherits the interface so in other
words whenever you go through when you
say X implements list 61b
in the same way that I have a license
that says I'm a doctor
that's a lot you're gonna expect from me
okay same deal so the interface consists
of all the methods signatures all the
things you expect the doctor to be able
to do prescribe drugs like help you when
you're sick those kind of things and
actually it turns out that these these
relationships can be multi-generational
that is we can have say government
official at the very top government
officials should serve the people lower
down we may have mayor so a mayor is a
governmental official so it does all the
things that governmental officials share
serving people but the mayor also has to
do things like balance city budget or
whatever that may mean and then you may
have specific mayor's like LaGuardia or
whatever okay so in the diagrams that
I'm gonna have in the future I'm gonna
specify that any interface is gonna be
in white and any class is in green so
you can think if you want to use people
as an example these are job titles or
categories of people and these are gonna
be specific people so interface
inheritance is going to be just an
incredibly useful tool for generalizing
code I think it's a really really lovely
idea and programming languages and we've
already seen an action in fact if we
look at our word utils class it can
handle any kind of list and that's real
nice so given that fact let's talk a
little bit about implementation
inheritance and how it interacts with
the golden rule of equals so there's a
little bit of a paradox that a student
some number of semesters ago as a little
bit next about I decided to roll it into
lecture maybe it's not the most exciting
thing but I'm gonna bring it up anyway
so the first fact is whenever you say x
equals y or whenever you pass a
parameter to a function you're just
copying the bits remember that to
remember we had this
type checking in Java which is that a
memory box can only hold 64-bit
addresses for the appropriate type so in
other words we can't say string x equals
new dog that's not allowed
however we look at this code it actually
seems like we're doing that we're saying
new a list and we're storing it in an a
list boxes a list memory box and we're
passing it into this box we're copying
the bits so in other words how did these
bits which are stored in an S list box
are in a list box how did those end up
in a list 61b box well let's actually
just for the sake of the argument let's
run this in the debugger and see exactly
what I mean in case you didn't quite
follow that so we look in the visualizer
when we get to this point in our code we
see the elk are watching yadda yadda
yadda and we step into this thing so
here's some list it is a 64-bit memory
box that holds the address of a list and
then whenever we go we step in we get
here we see a new variable is created
called list and it's a different type
list 61b yet these bits get copied here
but they're not quite the same time so
how is this resolved well the answer is
simple in Java Java really thinks of an
S list or an A List as a list right same
deal here with this example an A List it
is a list 61p so it makes perfect sense
that a list 61 B variable can hold the
address here in other words you know you
may be a Western doctor an Eastern
doctor whoever whatever tradition you
make em come from but if there's a
commonality about what things we expect
from those doctors then it's safe to be
able to ask them to say help us ok the
results we get back may be different but
we can safely ask it and they won't get
confused maybe that's the way to think
about it
the jargony way of putting it is that if
X is a superclass of Y then memory boxes
for the class X may contain Y in other
words the list
61 be a list 61 be variable can hold a
reference to an S list in a list or
indeed any list that could ever be so
let's see if that actually made sense to
you ok this will be the rest of our kind
of tedious inheritance philosophy
lecture but consider this question and
maybe pause it here will this code
compile what do you think it'll do and
if so what will happen when it runs and
this is a bit of a test of your
deep understanding of the golden rule of
equals so think about this pause the
video and then I'll spoil it okay I was
assuming you're pausing so that's giving
you time to pause all right um let's try
running it so in this file I have the
code commented out let's here exit this
debugging session instead let's run this
run is it dinner okay debugger all right
so when I run this code we get up to
this point we'll do the dip will
actually show the visualizer and we'll
step over this so we see that this first
line it compiled fine first of all we
know that because we're no red squiggly
so the answer is not a and then how
about this line
well creates a new s list and then it
stores that address and some list that's
totally fine and then what happens
whenever we try and add first well it
turns out that this some list pointer
will actually be able to execute ad
first so when I click this thing right
here it'll work just fine okay
so the answer is in fact B great so
that's a little bit more about the
golden rule equals just making sure
these are things you might not think
about really deeply and critically when
you're learning how to program but I
figured I'd bring them up since hey you
can always watch me at 1.5 X or 2x B